Okay, fantastic. Okay guys, so we're
ready little technical difficulty here. So
for that reason, we have to
have the the middle screen, you
know to live on the on
the laptop for the duration of
the class and the two side
screens on the pad. You're okay
with that. Alright, so we have
not yet left the topic of
greedy. But you remember I mentioned
last time that for the next
couple problems that we want to
solve using the greedy method. We're
going to need some more advanced
data structures and that got us
into the discussion of priority choose
one way to implement a priority
queue we talked about last time
was binary heat right now a
priority to can be implemented using
as well. Just want to mention
those options as well. They're not
going to spend it out of
time on them. But I want
you guys to be aware of
the other types of heat that
are out there that can help
you implement a priority to And
then we're going to jump back
into greeting. So the first work.
Well, I should say the second
type of sheets that we want
to talk about is called the
binomial so binomial heaps. Are constructed
using binomial trees the same way
that a binary heat is constructed
using binary tree's binomial heat or
constructed using binomial treat. So definition
of what a binomial tree B2K
looks like so it's definition is
recursive. So so the binomial tree
B20 consist of only one note
a binomial tree bisa pakai consists
of two binomials trees piece of
K - 1 that are linked
together. So sad the root of
1 is the leftmost child of
the roots of the other show
me Sub-Zero is going to be
just one piece of one is
going to be to be Sub-Zero's
one is the left most child
of the other piece of shoe
you see it's to be someone
this is a piece of one.
This is a piece of one.
This piece of one is the
left most child of the root
of this other piece of want
this abusive 3, which is two
piece of tooth. This is one
piece up to this is another
be safe too. And this piece
of 2 is the leftmost child
of the root of the other
piece of 2K. So goes up
like that. So you see that
final meal tree nice, okay. It
has a fixed side. So if
you wanted to build a heap
that could be of any size.
Using binomial trees. What do you
have to do? You have to
use a combination of binomial tree
So here's a is the definition
of the binomial heat. So binomial
Heats H is is a set
of binomial tree. So this is
a contract with a fine binary
ink being constructed using only a
single binary tree. So the binomial
keep could consist of a number
of binomial tree. I have the
following property each binomial tree in
h a bass d.min. Heat property.
You guys remember the men he
property there the key value for
their nose. Is no larger. For
the men hip is is that
no less than the value corresponding
to the time? The other property
is that for any non-negative integer
K. There's at most one binomial
tree in h whose Roots has
degree K. So you can't you
can't have for example two piece
of to sort Ruby Civ 5
in a single binomial Heat. So
here's an example of a binomial
minty of size 7. Aerosol. in
a binomial heap of size 7
you see that you have a
decent 0 you have a piece
of one and you had a
visa to so How is 7
represented in binary? It is 7
in binary is what? it's a
how many zeros do you have
there? And then you have one
one and one right? So you
can actually think of the the
binary bind up the binomial trees
that you do you end up
with in a binary binomial live
in terms of the the the
bits representing the size of of
the heat in binary. So for
example, Inapposite that left right most
position you have a one so
it means that you have a
Visa Bureau the second one you
have again. I want it means
they have a Visa and a
certain position you have a one
is being said you have a
piece of two as well right
now. What is the representation of
8? so 8 in binary is
going to look like That's right.
So what does that mean? How
many how many binomial trees are
you going to have in a
binomial heat a size 8? this
one and that would be ABI
Saab a piece of three remember
piece of three has eight notes
exactly eight notes in it. All
right. Now as you can see
each one of these binary, I'm
sorry. Goodbye. And each one of
the binomial trees have the mini
property. But if you're trying to
find the the smallest element in
the Min Heap. Let's say this
is the head of the the
heat from this is this is
a pointer to to them in
heat. Can you just pick this
element? No, because the minimum elements
could be over here or here
or hear it could be at
one of the roots of the
binomial tree. So how long would
it take us to to go
and search through the split but
say you have an element's in
the ruthless. How long does it
take us to go in search
this ruthless and then we have
to basically go through the ruthless
linearly. So how long would it
take? if you have any elements
in the portal in the binomial,
how many routes can you have
in the in the ruthless how
many elements can you have in
the route list? Ann Arbor the
each one of these trees would
correspond to one of these bits
in a binary representation of the
size of the binomial heat. So
to represent 10 in binary, how
many bits do you need? you
need log and dip so Then
the maximum number of the trees
that you would have in the
in the ruthless is going to
be. login Do you like the
the light show that we have?
Thank you, Andrew. Do you need
a minute? Yeah, I'm do. Yeah,
sure. 30 seconds. Andrew says no
pressure. You think we are in
a stable 45 seconds? Okay, we're
good. All right. Okay, so so
let's see. Alright, so before we
leave this. To find the minimum
elements so find men. We just
talked about it. It takes a
while. Lol again because this Miss
Goody login long, they can be
log and trees involved. They have
to search the root for Soul
Men. The fine men takes login
time. Remember to sign in in
a binary. He took how long
And it took us a time
because you knew exactly where it
was. It was sitting position in
the array. Okay, so I could
actually taste login time worse case
now. Let's see how the insert
operation is going to work. So
let's say I'm going to insert.
an element with with a t
value of 9 into the seat,
so Can I just say well
I'm going to add this element
9 in The Roots list. And
the rest of it is going
to stay the same. Well, no
because what you remember one of
those constraints one of those properties
in a binomial Heap is that
you cannot have two piece of
cake so you cannot have to
be Sbarro's in that you've liked
it. So what do you have
to do you have to merge
them together? So so which one
becomes the left of the other
if this is this is a
Min he 12 becomes the leftmost
filed of 9 right and then
I'm very happy the seven and
the 10 and so forth now,
is it better to be someone?
So we have some birds he's
too which one becomes the leftmost
child. The one with the root
note having a value of 9
G Body of night. So then